Hi there. In this video, we are gonna
take a look at the Valgrind program, which
is a very important tool that you will
use in CS one zero seven to help
debug your code. In particular, it is used
to find memory leaks in your code. For
instance, when you allocated memory during your program
and then forgot to free it later when
you before the program ends. So I have
an example here that I want to show
you. So let's take a look at memory
leak dot c. And here's the program. It's
a very simple program. Basically, we're saying that
we have an array size of a thousand.
We are creating an array. I know we
haven't gotten there yet at the beginning of
the school year for, 01/2007 yet, but, instead
of, using new like we might in c
plus plus we use malloc here to ask
for memory from the memory system and to
allocate the memory. And in this case, we
are allocating an int array, just put the
numbers zero through 999 into each one. Then
we're gonna randomly grab one to print out.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna
end the program without freeing the memory. So
in other words, we have a memory leak.
Alright. So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna compile this. And to compile this, we're
gonna use some compiler commands flags that allow
Valgrind to tell us exactly in our program
where the memory leak is, which is actually
very nice. So what we can do is
we can do a dash g and dash
o g, and that is an o, uppercase
o and not a zero. And then dash
s t d equals, gnu 99 for the
type of c that we're using and then
memory leak dot c and then let's just
call the program memory leak. Okay. And it
compiled just fine. Remember, GCC can't tell if
we have unfreed memory, straight off the bat.
So it's, we're gonna just try to run
it. If we run this, it'll actually say
memory leak and or it'll say, it won't
say memory leak, it'll say a number and
it won't give us any overt errors. But
there is a memory leak and if we
run a program called valgrind on it, v
a l g r I n d, and
we will find this. Now, you have to
type Valgrind and then as if you were
running the, file. So you type Valgrind and
memory leak and watch what happens. Okay. It
gives us some things and it runs the
code and it actually printed out our answer
here and then it gives us a little
status at the end here. And what it
says is, in use at exit 4,000 bytes.
Well, it turns out that, integers are four
bytes each and we have 1,000 of them.
So this makes sense given what we know
about our program. There's 4,000 bytes that are
still in use. So if you know a
number like that and you happen to know
the program and you might be able to
that might tell you all you need to
know right there. But then it says, look,
I made one allocation, I didn't do any
freeze and I allocated 4,000 bytes, therefore there
are 4,000 bytes left. And then it says,
look, you definitely lost 4,000 bytes in one
block of memory and it also tells you
some other things. So we didn't it didn't
sometimes it can't quite tell, so it's possibly
lost. And it says that you, you know,
that that's the deal. Now, I promised you
that we'd be able to tell exactly where
the leak was and it says here, rerun
with dash dash leak check equals full to
see the details of the leaked memory. So
if we go and we say valgrind dash
dash leak check equals full and then dot
slash memory leak, it reruns our code again
and it gives us more information. And if
there's lots of issues, it will give you
lots and lots of information. But in this
case, it says, that 4,000 bytes and one
box are definitely lost. And what happened was
you said malloc in memory leak dot c
line nine. And you go, oh, I guess
I never freed the memory that I allocated
on line nine. So if we look at
memoryleak.c, we go down to line nine, we
say, oh, yep, look at that, there's our
malloc and it looks like we never freed
it. So this is a super super important
tool to give us enough information to help
debug our code, especially when we want to
find memory leaks. Now in CS one zero
seven, we will expect that your programs don't
have any leaks in them or you'll lose
points. So how might we fix this? If
we go to memoryleak.c and, I actually put
this comment in because I knew what I
was doing, but if I type free and
the pointer which was our int array and
then I rerun gcc on it, still compiles
just fine. If I run it, it gives
me some random number and random array access.
And if we run valgrind on it, and
let's just run the regular one. I'll clear
your screen first. And I'll do that and
it says, oh, look, use of exit zero
bytes and zero blocks. We had one allocation
and one free. Great. We allocated 4,000 bytes.
All heap blocks were freed. This is the
one that you wanna look for. No leaks
are possible. So if you can see that
in your code, you know you you know
you don't have any memory leaks. So that
is how you run Valgrind. Thanks.